Well let's start building our base geometry for sculpting.
In the last video we brought in our reference images and set them up in the front and right orthographic
views.
Now we can go ahead and begin building the model what I'm to do is just use basic box modeling techniques
to build up a base geometry and then from that we'll be able to sculpt.
So to do that let's just begin by creating a cube.
I can do that two ways I can press the T key over here and bring up the Tools panel and go to the Create
tab and I can click cube.
I can also hover over here and I can press shift a and that will give me the ADD menu and I can add
lots of different things like polygon meshes and curves and armatures and camera et cetera.
So I'm just going to come over here to create tab and click cube and there it is.
Now if you're new to Blender you've got the move rotate and scale tools down here at the bottom of each
of the 3D views I can middle mouse button click and drag this bar and get to them over here as well.
But they also have shortcut keys for move.
You can press the G for grab and move that around.
Now going to press the right mouse button to inactivate that you can also press the Archey and rotate.
Or you can press the s key and scale.
Now I like to use the manipulator here.
The move rotate and scale manipulators but I don't like to come down here and continually click a button.
So what I do is I come into the user preferences panel and enter input and 3D view and 3D global.
If you scroll all the way down what I've done is I've added a couple of shortcuts to the list here.
So what I've done is I've added Control alt left arrow to bring up the manipulator for translate I've
used control all down arrow to bring up the manipulator for rotate and control alt.
Right arrow for scale.
Now the essential piece of code that you need here is this view 3D dot enable underscore manipulator
so you can scroll all the way down here.
Click on Add new and create new shortcut keys that look like this for the manipulators.
So you'll see me doing that quite a bit.
I'll switch press control alt down control all right control alt left arrow to switch between the manipulator
tools.
All right so now that I've got that I'm going to go and drag this up and this is going to be for the
pelvis.
This particular box right here is just the pelvis so I'm going to scale this and place it where it needs
to be.
Now the next thing I want to do is extrude this up toward the head.
So what I need to do is select that top face and extrude it up.
When I go and press the tiki to get rid of that Tools panel now to go to Edit mode I can hit the tab
key and choose faces I can press control tab and hit face.
Now I've got all these selected I don't need them all I'm going to hit the A key to de-select and I
just want to select that face on top.
What I can do is just middle mouse button click and drag and rotate it so I can see the top and then
go back to my front view by pressing the one key on the numpad and the five key will ensure that I'm
in the orthographic view again.
So what I want to do next is extrude this up toward the head so to extrude.
I'm going to press the e key and just drag straight up with the mouse till I get right about two here
maybe just below the rib cage.
Hit e again to extrude and move that up to about the chest maybe somewhere right in here.
Now I'm going to extrude again with the key.
Go up to the clavicle.
I'm going to go ahead and scale that down to the width of the neck and then I'm going extrude again
up to kind of the top of the neck and then extrude again for the top of the head.
Something like that.
So it's looking pretty basic at this point in time and that's OK.
You can always do some some adjusting here if you want.
I'm going to press control tab and go to edge mode and I can select an edge here but it doesn't go all
the way around.
If I press alt and click the edge it will select the whole edge loop all the way around and I can move
this up and down as needed here.
Something like that let's say Now I'm going to insert three edge loops along here to do that.
I'm going to use the loop cut and slide to will which is control are.
And then I'm going to scroll the mouse wheel like that to create three edge loops and you can scroll
as much as you want.
You can create one edge loop you can create three but I'm going create three here and I'm going to click
now that I've got this.
It's still kind of sliding here.
I need to click again to confirm the tool and drop the edges onto the object.
Now I've made sure that that center line is right down the center of the object here.
I'm now going to go to the scale tool and scale these in a bat.
The reason why we've inserted these edge loops is so we have some faces to extrude down for the legs.
So I want to come back up here and I'm going to a middle mouse button click and drag and rotate and
tumble so I can see these faces on the bottom and hit the A key to de-select those edges and then on
to press control tab and go to face mode.
And now I can select this face and shift select this phase go back to the front view with the one key
and now I can hit the key and extrude straight down.
So I'm going to extrude down to kind of the top of the knee here.
Hit the key again and screwed down to the bottom of the knee.
And then I'm just going to hit the key and go all the way down to the bottom of the character and about
like that.
All right so we've got the front and the side view kind of blocked out.
Now it's looking pretty terrible at this point in time and that's ok.
I want to insert an edge loop along the side here so I'm going to press control r and hover over here
until I get an edge loop and click once and then a click twice.
I also want to insert an edge loop here at the ankle so when I press control are click and I'm going
to drag this down to right about here where the ankle is supposed to be.
I'll hit the A key to de-select that.
And now I need to select all of these points here and scale them in and drag them back a bit to select
all these points.
I'm going to press the Z key on the keyboard to go into wireframe mode.
I'm going to press the control tab key to go to vertex mode.
And now I the border select all of these by pressing the key click and drag.
And now I've got all of those selected.
So I'll switch to my move tool and move them all back a bit.
And then I also want to scale the man something to scale this way like that and move him back a bit
like that.
So they're kind of beginning to be in line with the actual character drawing.
I'm going to press control minus on the numpad to reduce the selection and then pull that back a bit
like this.
Something like that.
Now there's more adjusting to be done here but I think I'm going to work on the feet really quick for
the feet.
I'm going to go back to my default view.
I'm going to go here into default.
And now we can see this in perspective mode.
And now that we're here we can see that I didn't insert a loop over here to match this one so I better
do that.
I'm going to go ahead and click that there.
Now for the feat what let's do is selected this face once again control tab to get into face mode and
I'm going to scale these in but if I select them both have a scale in like that.
That's not going to work what I need to do is change the point of pivot for each of these faces and
I can do that right down here so I can change the pivot point to the 3D cursor active elements.
The default is median point but I'm going to change it to individual Origin's and Riego.
So now if I scale in they collapse and like that uniformly and I believe I'll pull these back just a
bit like so.
Maybe move these scale these out a bit small scale.
All of these out once again like this.
There we go.
So now I've got these three faces on the front selected.
I'm going to go back to my character images and now I'm just going to get easy and extrude straight
out.
Like so.
And then I'll scale like that.
And move them down to the ground play like that.
Where we have our feet.
Let's go ahead and select the faces at the front of the character here press control tab face and I
want to select just these up here so press the C key for a circle select and drag selected these four
faces.
All right click to get out of the circle select tool press the three key to go back to orthographic
view for the side view.
And I'll go ahead and hit E and extrude this out.
I also want to insert an edge loop here straight across like that and now I should be able to go to
wireframe with the Zeek the control tab Virtex mode and now I should be able to just box select these
pieces and press the G key to move them around and I just want to get these shaped a little bit better
so they follow the contours of the character.
So I'm just pressing the B key and then the G key and moving these around a bit.
Something like that I'll grab these points and move them down a bit.
I'm not going to deal with the ears quite yet.
So they were beginning to pull the points to match our model.
We've got some polling to do here of course but I'm going to go through now and select edges so all
press control tab and go into edge mode and I'll Allt select this edge so it'll select the entire loop
and I'm going to begin going through and just kind of angling and placing these edges to match my character
drawing.
So I pressed the Z key to go into wireframe and G.
And then I'll press the R key to kind of rotate it and get it in place like this.
This when I'm going to scale.
So it fits a little better for the character and rotate it just a hair.
This one I'm going to move in line with the base of the rib cage which is kind of like this.
This one here move up a bit and angled down like that maybe scale it in some like.
So this one here I'm going to have to press the Z key and go to vertex mode to select because it won't
select that entire edge all the way around here so I'll just border select this and get that.
I'll bring this down a bit maybe down here tilted a bit.
Scale it in in the y here.
Something like that.
I'm going to need to border select these as well.
I'll scale that in.
Move it here to the top of the knees.
This one is going to define the Cavs so I get this right here.
This one of course will be the ankle's.
So there is a rough outline of our character from the side in the next video I go through and I'll begin
pulling these out.
So he looks a little better from the front and also will work on dealing with the arms.